Our team will collaborate both through in-person meetings and online communication. We will meet up during class time to have discussions on our next steps, and constantly update each other on progress via Slack. Online communication is essential for us, since not all members can be on campus every day. 

As for workflow, the current plan is to adopt a pseudo-agile methodology by dividing work into manageable tasks and assigning them to team members. We are keeping track of progress and TODO lists via Github issues, which come conveniently organized into an online Kanban board. 

The main problem with adopting a full agile approach is that having regular sprints is not always practical for a school project. All of us have many responsibilities outside of this class, meaning a typical 2-week sprint schedule would be very difficult for some of us during weeks where other courses have tests / assignments due. Because of this, we have chosen to have a more “As Required” approach to productivity.  Furthermore, in order to perform semi-regular standup meetings, we find that the easiest way is to meet up during class, as that is when all of us are free. 

All of our team members are well-rounded and willing to take up any work, however, some are more partial to backend whereas others are more partial to frontend. We even have one member who wishes to gain experience in automated testing frameworks. This allows us to divide up the work evenly and give everyone something that they want to work on.
